Newsletters: add 254 (2023-06-07) (#1139)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _includes/specials/policy/en/04-feerate-estimation.md

as low as possible to save money, but high enough to secure a spot in
a block suitable for the user's time preference.

The goal of _fee estimation_ is to translate a target timeframe for
confirmation to a minimal feerate the transaction should pay.

One complication of fee estimation is the irregularity of block space
production. Let's say a user needs to pay a merchant within one hour
to receive their goods. The user may expect a block to be mined every
10 minutes, and thus aim for a spot within the next 6 blocks. However,
it's entirely possible for one block to take 45 minutes to be found.
Fee estimators must translate between a user’s desired urgency or
timeframe (something like “I want this to confirm by the end of the
work day”) and a window of block space (a number of blocks). Many fee
estimators address this challenge by denominating confirmation targets
in the number of blocks in addition to time.

With no information about transactions prior to their confirmation,
one can build a naive fee estimator that uses historical data about
what transaction feerates tend to land in blocks. As this estimator is
blind to the transactions awaiting confirmation in mempools, it would

> become very inaccurate with unexpected changes in blockspace demand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
become very inaccurate due to unexpected changes in blockspace demand
```

and the occasional long block interval. Its other weakness is its
reliance on information controlled wholly by miners, who would be able
to drive feerates up by including fake high-feerate transactions in
their blocks.

Fortunately, the market for blockspace is not a blind auction. We
mentioned in our first post that keeping a mempool and participating
in the peer-to-peer transaction relay network allows a node to see
what users are bidding. The Bitcoin Core fee estimator also uses
historical data to calculate the likelihood of a transaction at
feerate `f` confirming within `n` blocks, but specifically tracks the
height at which the node first sees a transaction and when it
confirms.  This method works around activity that happens outside the
public fee market by ignoring it. If miners always include several
high-feerate transactions in their own blocks, this fee estimator
isn't skewed because it only uses data from transactions that were

> publicly relayed prior to confirmation.

Reviewer: This is a great point, and maybe to clarify slightly:
```suggestion
publicly relayed prior to confirmation. (A miner won't _broadcast_ a fake high-feerate transaction because it could be mined by a competing miner.)
```

> We also have insight on the way transactions are selected for blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also have insights into the way transactions are selected for blocks.
```

Reviewer 2: taken
